# DHM-DFOR-Project2
Overview
Tomb of the Mask is a free indie arcade game by Playgendary and Happymagenta that can be found on the Google Play Store for Android and Apple App Store for iOS. With over 100 million downloads and 2 million reviews, plenty of people have played and have reviewed this game, however few have reviewed the technical sides of this app through the use of digital forensics. As a graduate student studying digital forensics, I hope to provide an adequate review of Tomb of the Mask that factors in both the gameplay and technical aspects of this popular app.

Gameplay
The gameplay of Tomb of the Mask is simple, involving the player dashing about stage levels, avoiding spiked walls and enemies that will kill your character if you aren’t fast enough and a death floor that slowly rises as you play a level. If you want a challenge, there is an arcade mode that allows you play a map that is procedural generated as you play it, allowing for a map of infinite length from which you can try and achieve higher and higher scores.

By swiping the screen, you can make your character move in the direction that you swiped, though once your character starts moving they won’t stop until they hit a wall or other obstacle. Some walls are designed to spawn spikes a second or two after touching them and will likely be the source of most deaths in the early levels.

The levels themselves contain stars and circles which can both be picked up for rewards once a level is complete. If you manage to get everything in the level and complete it you will be rewarded with a chest and a free power-up, as well as gaining points which contribute to a level system that lets you unlock more sprites for your character and which multiplies the amount of points you get each level. 

An energy mechanic exists to prevent you from playing the map stages for too long in a given period of time, with deaths costing energy that is only replaced after some time has passed. As you can still play the arcade mode without energy, you can still binge Tomb of the Mask even if your energy runs out so while the mechanic itself is annoying, it is largely a non-issue.

The only thing that tarnished the experience in my eyes was the rather aggressive ad placement between levels and during the opening of loot chests. Difficult to skip and with seemingly no time limit, with a single misplaced tap of the screen these ads will quickly whisk you away to the Play store hoping that you will download whatever they are advertising while you are there. While I was playing, this was most often an ad for TikTok.

There were two ways to get around the aggressive ad placement of this application that I have found. The first is a one-dollar micro-transaction that will get rid of advertisements. The other is by putting your phone into airplay mode. As I am loath to reward companies for overly-aggressive businesses strategies, I have stuck with the latter method to get rid of my ad woes.

Difficulties
Tomb of the Mask, like many other apps, collects data on your phone. Officially, the app collects your device’s location data giving it an approximate knowledge of your location, financial information relating to the purchase history, a suite of info from crash logs and internal diagnostics pertaining to the app, and the IDs of the device and “others”. That last bit stuck out to me, as any time there is an open-ended statement like that it usually means that more is being collected than you might think. This app wouldn’t be the first free app that understates what data it collects in its quest to recoup development costs.
With this in mind, I set about rooting an old Android phone of mine, a Cubot Quest running Android 9, so that I could create a full image of my device using Magnet ACQUIRE that contained Tomb of the Mask’s application data. My goal was to see what permissions Tomb of the Mask had on the device and, if possible, what data was collected and sent to its developers. Unfortunately, I ran into some difficulties while attempting to root it.
Acquiring a developer’s privileges was simple enough, seven taps on the build number and I was a developer in the eyes of my Cubot. I then enabled USB Debugging and OEM unlocking so that I could gain access to the bootloader. The problems arose after that, however.
At first I tried to use popular rooting tools to quickly root my old phone. These included Framaroot, which seemed to be the most promising until I learned my device was not compatible with version 1.4.1 (the only version I was able to successfully run); Kingroot and its offshoot Kingoroot; and iRoot.
I then attempted to root my phone using Magisk. Using a handy guide from the XDA Developers site, “How to Install Magisk on your Android Phone”, I attempted to use a patched boot image to finally root my phone. The images "Must Update Android Driver" and "BootLoader Not Working" in this project were the results of two different attempts at using Magisk. Unfortunately, that is when I hit learned of a very difficult roadblock that had so far thwarted my attempts to root the device. 
While I was able to issue CMD commands to my phone (as seen in the image Failed Magisk Root), while I was able to transfer files to and from the Cubot, it would appear that a driver issue prevented me from issuing any fastboot command that did not involve putting my phone into fastboot mode. I searched for ways to get the driver’s to work or circumvent it through using different cables and even changing which computer the commands were being sent from, however my time was running out on this project and so I went with plan B.
Technical
As such this project of mine does not, much to my chagrin, involve digging through the electronic guts of phone to find the juicy data hidden away. Instead I will be using the digital equivalent of panning for gold, identifying interesting little bits of data that I was able to acquire from a quick image of my phone using Magnet ACQUIRE while the game was running in the background as well as one or two educated guesses based on what I observed.
When I first began sifting through the quick image using Autopsy, I was worried that my quick image would give me nothing on the app. This was because of a keyword list I created that contained tomb of the mask, tombofthemask, and tomb_of_the_mask. This search gave me a single result, package.txt, which simply told me that the app had been installed. 
The good news is that through a bit of rooting around in the data files I learned that the app used Tomb of the Mask’s developer, Playgendary, when referring to the app itself. When I searched for Playgendary as a regular expression through the search function, that is when I found my data. The file Playgendary - Search Results shows a small snippet of this result.
